---
title: 'Welcome to my research notebook'
date: 2025-12-21
permalink: /posts/2025/12/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - news
---

Welcome to this space dedicated to my research and reflections on the evolution of contemporary robotics.

Why creating this site ?
======
As researchers, we spend a large part of our time writing articles for conferences or specialized journals not always available for everyone. However, dialogue between the laboratory and the industrial world is essential for innovation to find its real usefulness. I designed this site as a place to share not only my academic publications, but also technical demonstrations, feedback on platforms such as so100, and my vision of automation.

My research philosophy
======
I consider many challenges that are important and yet actually underestimated right now in the academic fields of AI & robotics such as :
- Guaranteeing the **security** of an operator meanwhile maintaining an **efficient execution** of imitation learning policies (or others)
- Developing **AI architectures** adapted to **Out-of-distribution** generalization
- Detecting **failures** or failure cases a priori (without having to execute the policy)
- **Collecting trajectories** to train offline policies in an efficient way a priori (without having to train and execute a policy like DAGGER)

What you will find here
-----

Over the coming months, I will be sharing the following here:

- Summaries of my latest publications, simplified to highlight their industrial applications.

- Tutorials or technical notes on the tools I use on a daily basis (ROS 2, Franka robots, computer vision, machine learning).

- Simplified descriptions of my GitHub repositories from a robotics engineer's perspective.

- Thoughts on current events in the sector, from generative AI applied to control to new standards in service robotics.

- Some thoughts and maths on learning theory.